{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh13480\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Research on the Tea Party finds that both libertarian and authoritarian attitudes drive support for this movement, but political scientists lack a satisfactory explanation of this contradiction. To help resolve this puzzle, we argue a key factor driving support for the Tea Party is what Nietzsche called "misarchism:" an ideology which is anti-government but statist and moralistic. Factor analysis of nine attitudes from the 2012 American National Election Study reveals that statism and moral traditionalism are intercorrelated on a dimension distinct from attitudes toward government. Regression analysis shows that the interaction of anti-government and morally statist ideological factors is one of the strongest and most robust predictors of Tea Party support. Bayesian Model Averaging, multiple imputation, and genetic matching suggest that the correlation between misarchism and support for the Tea Party is not an artifact of model selection, missing values, or parametric model assumptions.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\

\fs38 \
\
Objective. Research on the Tea Party finds that both libertarian and authoritarian attitudes drive support for this movement, but political scientists lack a satisfactory explanation of this contradiction. Methods. Factor analysis of nine attitudes from the 2012 American National Election Study is used to explore whether statism and moral traditionalism are intercorrelated on a dimension distinct from attitudes toward government; regression analysis is used to test how these distinct dimensions help to explain support for the Tea Party. Results. The multiplicative interaction of anti-government and morally statist ideological factors is found to be one of the strongest and most robust predictors of Tea Party support. Conclusions. Our results suggest the Tea Party movement is in part driven by what Nietzsche called "misarchism," an ideological mixture of moralism, statism, and libertarianism he first observed in Herbert Spencer.\
\
\

\fs24 \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
To help resolve this puzzle, we argue a key factor driving support for the Tea Party is what Nietzsche called "misarchism:" an ideology which is anti-government but statist and moralistic.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl614\sa115

\f1\b\fs38 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Objective\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240

\b0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Despite substantial theorizing, the relationship between economic inequality and participation in nonviolent protests has not been satisfactorily examined empirically. 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Methods
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 . Using multilevel models of data from four waves of the European Social Survey, this article examines whether differences in inequality across countries and over time help explain people's engagement in peaceful protest. 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Results
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 . It finds that greater inequality reduces protest participation for all those with incomes below the top quintile. 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Conclusions
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 . This result provides strong support for the relative power theory of political participation; the predictions of grievance and resource theories regarding inequality's effects on protest are not supported.\cb1 \
}